
# Kubernetes Commands

This section covers essential Kubernetes (k8s) commands for managing deployments, pods, services, and more, facilitating CRUD operations and debugging.

## CRUD Operations

Perform basic Create, Read, Update, Delete (CRUD) operations on Kubernetes objects.

- **Create Deployment / Multiple Pods**: Creates a deployment to manage multiple pods.
  ```shell
  kubectl create deployment <DEPLOYMENT_NAME> --image=<IMAGE_NAME>:<TAG>
  ```
- **Edit Deployment**: Opens the editor to modify the deployment configuration.
  ```shell
  kubectl edit deployment <DEPLOYMENT_NAME>
  ```
- **Delete Deployment**: Removes a deployment and its managed resources.
  ```shell
  kubectl delete deployment <DEPLOYMENT_NAME>
  ```
- **Status of Different k8s Components**: Retrieves the current status of various Kubernetes components.
  ```shell
  kubectl get all
  kubectl get po -A
  kubectl get pods
  kubectl get services
  kubectl get deployments
  kubectl get replicaset
  ```

## Debugging

Commands to assist in troubleshooting and debugging pods within your Kubernetes cluster.

- **Logs**: Fetches the logs of a specified pod.
  ```shell
  kubectl logs <POD_NAME>
  ```
- **Exec**: Executes a command inside a container in a pod, typically to access the shell.
  ```shell
  kubectl exec -it <POD_NAME> -- bin/bash
  ```

# miniKube Commands

Minikube simplifies the process of running Kubernetes locally, ideal for development and testing.

- **Start / Shut Down / Delete Cluster**: Commands to manage the lifecycle of your Minikube cluster.
  ```shell
  minikube start
  ```

# Kubernetes YAML Configuration Files

An overview of the three main parts of Kubernetes YAML configuration files, crucial for defining applications.

1. **Metadata**: Defines information like names, namespaces, and labels.
2. **Specification (Spec)**: Describes desired states, configurations, and volumes.
3. **Status**: Automatically generated by Kubernetes, representing the current state of the object.

# MongoDB and Mongo Express

A brief mention indicating the use of MongoDB and Mongo Express within Kubernetes environments, possibly for database management and web-based database administration.

# Base64 Encode a String

A utility command for encoding a string into Base64, often used for generating secrets in Kubernetes.

```shell
echo -n '<string>' | base64
```

# References

Providing helpful resources for further exploration and detailed guides.

- [minikube start](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/)
- [Nana's Tech World - GitHub](https://gitlab.com/nanuchi/youtube-tutorial-series/-/tree/master)
